This is a question from a student in
Bonn, Germany, about wanting to open a bubble
tea shop. "Dear Teacher,
I plan to open a bubble tea shop and would like
your advice.
What should I prepare to ensure business success?
I sincerely thank you for your guidance. Regarding
business success, I will
reiterate the Buddha's teachings. The student then asks, 'O Venerable Buddha,
why do
some people in the world succeed in business while others
fail?' The
Buddha taught this: '
If someone promises to make offerings
to a monk and makes the offerings
as promised, their business will be successful. If someone
promises to make offerings
to a monk and makes more than
they promised, their business will be
successful and grow beyond their
expectations. If someone promises to make
offerings to a monk but doesn't make the offerings
as promised, their business will
fail.' Therefore, the important thing is
what we promise and
what we give, especially when making offerings to the Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha).
So, we should keep our promises, and that
leads to business success.
With real-world knowledge, people
might say, "Because I
didn't ensure food safety and hygiene in my business, they came and
shut me down. They wouldn't let me do
business anymore." The intention and
all the thoughts that led to
the unsafe food,
causing you to be shut down, are all due to karma. It's
all about
your thoughts and how you think,
determined by your merit. For example, if
you are a person with good karma, you will
think in the right direction; if you are not,
you will think in the wrong direction.
So, it's important to think
about your merit and, in the
present moment, when doing business, you should also pay
attention to your ethics.
Because ethics will increase your
blessings, you
must maintain cleanliness and
food safety. Secondly, you should think about...  The
third quality is that you should think about taking good care
of your employees,
giving them a cheerful and joyful mindset. A cheerful and
joyful mindset
attracts customers. If there is
anger or conflict between the employer and employee,
especially over money,
customers will gradually
disappear. You are the provider, the one who
supplies (in
Buddhism, this is called the primary karmic reward), while the buyer is
only the secondary karmic reward. If
you are harmonious,
loving, caring, and provide for each other
financially,
then people will
rely on you and
provide for you adequately. Where there is
harmony, there is also increased blessings.
Therefore, I advise you to plan to make a
monthly offering to the
Three Jewels (Buddha, Dharma, Sangha) with your earnings.
You should also tell
your employees that you will do this together.
If, at the beginning, neither
you nor I earn much, then
we'll have less, but once we earn more,
you'll get a raise. The teacher
also shared a secret because she used to
do it herself, so she has a secret.
Don't think that just because your business isn't
developing, you should pay less than
others. Don't be like that. From the beginning, when
you start working, you should pay the same salary
as the other person who's been working there for a long time. If you're willing to
take a little loss, pay the same salary for the next month. If it's not the same the following month, then tell them that your business isn't doing well, and maybe you can take a little less.
That creates understanding and
empathy.
This understanding helps you develop, even
if your past karma was
n't good. Now is the time to
sow good karma that will lead to greater
development. The important thing is to
know how to make offerings to the Three Jewels so that
your business succeeds, and
secondly, to live with integrity and compassion,
and to care for the people
you work for.  No matter what profession
you're in, as long as you're the owner, you must
treat
your employees equally and with love, and ensure they are treated
fairly.
Only then will you be able to develop. Anyone who
intends to treat their employees cheaply will
not achieve sustainable growth.
Now, let's
think about it. Now, I'm following this
line of thinking: all global companies,
if they belong to a
global corporation, pay their
employees very high salaries. Anyone who thinks
about exploiting their employees will inevitably fail and
never be able to develop.
Therefore, the core principle is to
want your employees to have
a prosperous life, and the result will be
business growth. Yes,
thank you for your answer,
[music]
teacher.